[DOCU-2429] Themes File reference (#4219)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/kong-enterprise/developer-portal/themes.md

title: Themes Files
content-type: reference
---

## Theme files
### Themes directory structure
The theme directory contains different instances of portal themes, each one of which determines the look and feel of the Dev Portal via HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  Which theme is used at time of render is determined by setting `theme.name` within `portal.conf.yaml`. Setting `theme.name` to `best-theme` causes the portal to load theme files under `themes/best-theme/**`.

A theme file is composed of a few different directory:
- **assets/**
  - The assets directory contains static assets that layouts/partials will reference at time of render. Includes CSS, JS, font, and image files.
- **layouts/**
  - The layouts directory contains HTML page templates that `content` reference via the `layout` attribute in `headmatter`.
- **partials/**
  - The partials directory contains HTML partials to be referenced by layouts. Can be compared to how layouts and partials interacted in the legacy portal.
- **theme.conf.yaml**
  - This config file sets color and font defaults available to templates for reference as CSS variables. It also determines what options are available in the Kong Manager Appearance page.

> ### Theme assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme assets
```

#### Path
- **format:** `theme/*/assets/**/*`

#### Description

> The asset directory contains CSS/JavaScript/fonts/images for your templates to reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset directory contains CSS, JavaScript, fonts, and images for your templates to reference.
```

> To access asset files from your templates, keep in mind that Kong assumes a path from the root of your selected theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access asset files from your templates, keep in mind that {{site.base_gateway}} assumes a path from the root of your selected theme.
```

| Asset Path | HREF Element |
|--------------------------|---------------------------|
| `themes/light-theme/assets/images/image1.jpeg` | `<img src="assets/images/image1">` |
| `themes/light-theme/assets/js/my-script.js` | `<script src="assets/js/my-script.js"></script>` |
| `themes/light-theme/assets/styles/my-styles.css` | `<link href="assets/styles/normalize.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />` |

> >Note: Image files uploaded to the `theme/*/assets/` directory should either be a `svg` text string or `base64` encoded, `base64` images will be decoded when served.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.note}
> **Note:** Image files uploaded to the `theme/*/assets/` directory should either be a `svg` text string or `base64` encoded. `base64` images are decoded when served.
```

> ### Theme layouts
> 
> #### Path
> - **format:** `theme/*/layouts/**/*`
> - **file extensions:** `.html`
> 
> #### Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme layouts

### Path
- **format:** `theme/*/layouts/**/*`
- **file extensions:** `.html`

### Description
```

> Layouts act as the HTML skeleton of the page you want to render. Each file within the layouts directory must have an `html` file type. They can exist as vanilla `html`, or can reference partials and parent layouts via the portals templating syntax. Layouts also have access to the `headmatter` and `body` attributes set in `content`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layouts act as the HTML skeleton of the page you want to render. Each file in the layouts directory must have an `html` file type. They can exist as vanilla `html` or reference partials and parent layouts via the portals templating syntax. Layouts also have access to the `headmatter` and `body` attributes set in `content`.
```

> This example shows what a typical layout could look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows what a typical layout can look like:
```

{% raw %}
```html
<div class="homepage">
  {(partials/header.html)}       <- syntax for calling a partial within a template
  <div class="page">
    <div class="row">
      <h1>{{page.title}}</h1>    <- 'title' retrieved from page headmatter
    </div>
    <div class="row">
      <p>{{page.body}}</p>       <- 'body' retrieved from page body
    </div>
  </div>
  {(partials/footer.html)}
</div>
```
{% endraw %}

To learn more about the templating syntax used in this example, check out our [templating guide](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/working-with-templates).

> ### Theme partials
> 
> #### Path
> - **format:** `theme/*/partials/**/*`
> - **file extensions:** `.html`
> 
> #### Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme partials

### Path
- **format:** `theme/*/partials/**/*`
- **file extensions:** `.html`

### Description
```

> Partials are very similar to layouts: they share the same syntax, can call other partials within themselves, and have access to the same data/helpers at time of render. The thing that differentiates partials from layouts it that layouts call on partials to build the page, but partials cannot call on layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partials are very similar to layouts: they share the same syntax, can call other partials within themselves, and have access to the same data/helpers during rendering. Partials are differentiated from layouts in that layouts call on partials to build the page, but partials cannot call on layouts.
```

This example shows the `header.html` partial referenced from previous example:

{% raw %}
```html
<header>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="column">
      <img src="{{page.logo}}">      <- can access the same page data the parent layout
    </div>
    <div class="column">
      {(partials/header_nav.html)}   <- partials can call other partials
    </div>
  </div>
</header>
```
{% endraw %}

> ### Theme configuration file
> 
> #### Path
> - **format:** `theme/*/theme.conf.yaml`
> - **file extensions:** `.yaml`
> 
> #### Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme configuration file

### Path
- **format:** `theme/*/theme.conf.yaml`
- **file extensions:** `.yaml`

### Description
```

> The theme configuration file determines color/font/image values a theme makes available for templates/CSS at the time of render. It is required in the root of every theme. There can only be one theme configuration file, it must be named `theme.conf.yaml`, and it must be a direct child of the themes root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The theme configuration file determines color, font, and image values that a theme makes available to templates and CSS during rendering. It is required in the root of every theme. There can only be one theme configuration file. It must be named `theme.conf.yaml` and it must be a direct child of the themes root directory.
```
